README.md, before:

![Docker](https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord/actions/workflows/docker_upload.yml/badge.svg)
![PyPi](https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord/actions/workflows/pypi_upload.yml/badge.svg)
![Build](https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/gpt3discord.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/gpt3discord)

# Screenshots

<p align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/KeLpDgj.png"/>
<img  src="https://i.imgur.com/jLp1T0h.png"/>

</p>

**PERMANENT MEMORY FOR CONVERSATIONS COMING VERY SOON USING EMBEDDINGS!**

# Recent Major Updates

- **AUTOMATIC CHAT SUMMARIZATION!** - When the context limit of a conversation is reached, the bot will use GPT3 itself to summarize the conversation to reduce the tokens, and continue conversing with you, this allows you to chat for a long time!

- **Private conversations, custom conversation openers, minimal conversation opener** - for `/gpt converse`

# Features
- **Directly prompt GPT3 with `/gpt ask <prompt>`**

- **Have conversations with the bot, just like chatgpt, with `/gpt converse`** - Conversations happen in threads that get automatically cleaned up!

- **DALL-E Image Generation** - Generate DALL-E AI images right in discord with `/dalle draw <prompt>`! It even supports multiple image qualities, multiple images, creating image variants, retrying, and saving images.

- **DALL-E Image Prompt Optimization** - Given some text that you're trying to generate an image for, the bot will automatically optimize the text to be more DALL-E friendly! `/dalle optimize <prompt>`

- **Redo Requests** - A simple button after the GPT3 response or DALL-E generation allows you to redo the initial prompt you asked. You can also redo conversation messages by just editing your message!

- Automatically re-send your prompt and update the response in place if you edit your original prompt!

- Async and fault tolerant, **can handle hundreds of users at once**, if the upstream API permits!
- Change and view model parameters such as temp, top_p, and etc directly within discord. 
- Tracks token usage automatically
- Automatic pagination and discord support, the bot will automatically send very long message as multiple messages, and is able to send discord code blocks and emoji, gifs, etc.
- A low usage mode, use a command to automatically switch to a cheaper and faster model to conserve your tokens during times of peak usage. 
- Prints debug to a channel of your choice, so you can view the raw response JSON
- Ability to specify a limit to how long a conversation can be with the bot, to conserve your tokens.

# Commands

These commands are grouped, so each group has a prefix but you can easily tab complete the command without the prefix. For example, for `/gpt ask`, if you type `/ask` and press tab, it'll show up too.

`/help` - Display help text for the bot

`/gpt ask <prompt>` Ask the GPT3 Davinci 003 model a question.

`/gpt converse` - Start a conversation with the bot, like ChatGPT

`/gpt converse private:yes` - Start a private conversation with the bot, like ChatGPT

`/gpt converse opener:<opener text> | <opener file name>.txt` - Start a conversation with the bot, with a custom opener text (this is useful if you want it to take on a custom personality from the start). You can also load the opener text from a file by saving it in the bot root directory as .txt and referencing it in the opener param.

`/gpt converse minimal:yes` - Start a conversation with the bot, like ChatGPT, with minimal context (saves tokens)

- Note that the above options for `/gpt converse` can be combined (you can combine minimal, private, and opener!)

`/gpt end-chat` - End a conversation with the bot.

`/dalle draw <prompt>` - Have DALL-E generate images based on a prompt

`/dalle optimize <image prompt text>` Optimize a given prompt text for DALL-E image generation.

`/system settings` - Display settings for the model (temperature, top_p, etc)

`/system settings <setting> <value>` - Change a model setting to a new value

`/system usage` Estimate current usage details (based on davinci)

`/system settings low_usage_mode True/False` Turn low usage mode on and off. If on, it will use the curie-001 model, and if off, it will use the davinci-003 model.

`/system delete-conversation-threads` - Delete all threads related to this bot across all servers.

`/system local-size` - Get the size of the local dalleimages folder

`/system clear-local` - Clear all the local dalleimages.

# Configuration

All the model parameters are configurable inside discord. Type `/system settings` to view all the configurable parameters, and use `/system settings <param> <value>` to set parameters. 

For example, if I wanted to change the number of images generated by DALL-E by default to 4, I can type the following command in discord: `/system settings num_images 4`


# Requirements
`python3.9 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`

**I recommend using python 3.9!**

OpenAI API Key (https://beta.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction)

Discord Bot Token (https://discord.com/developers/applications)

You can learn how to add the discord bot to your server via https://www.ionos.co.uk/digitalguide/server/know-how/creating-discord-bot/

Both the OpenAI API key and the Discord bot token needed to be loaded into a .env file in the same local directory as the bot file.

You also need to add a DEBUG_GUILD id and a DEBUG_CHANNEL id, the debug guild id is a server id, and the debug channel id is a text-channel id in Discord. Your final .env file should look like the following:

You also need to add the allowed guilds that the bot can operate on, this is the `ALLOWED_GUILDS` field, to get a guild ID, right click a server and click "Copy ID".

You also need to add the roles that can use the bots various features, scroll down a bit to "Permissions", and check out the sample environment file below.

```
OPENAI_TOKEN="<openai_api_token>"
DISCORD_TOKEN="<discord_bot_token>"
DEBUG_GUILD="974519864045756446"   #discord_server_id
DEBUG_CHANNEL="977697652147892304"  #discord_chanel_id
ALLOWED_GUILDS="971268468148166697,971268468148166697"
# People with the roles in ADMIN_ROLES can use admin commands like /clear-local, and etc
ADMIN_ROLES="Admin,Owner" 
# People with the roles in DALLE_ROLES can use commands like /dalle draw or /dalle imgoptimize
DALLE_ROLES="Admin,Openai,Dalle,gpt"
# People with the roles in GPT_ROLES can use commands like /gpt ask or /gpt converse
GPT_ROLES="openai,gpt"
WELCOME_MESSAGE="Hi There! Welcome to our Discord server. We hope you'll enjoy our server and we look forward to engaging with you!" # This is a fallback message if gpt3 fails to generate a welcome message.
```

**Permissions**

As mentioned in the comments of the sample environment file, there are three permission groups that you can edit in the environment (`.env`) file. `ADMIN_ROLES` are roles that allow users to use `/system` commands. `GPT_ROLES` are roles that allow users to use `/gpt` commands, and `DALLE_ROLES` are roles that allow users to use `/dalle` commands.

Optionally, you can include your own conversation starter text for the bot that's used with `/gpt converse`, with `CONVERSATION_STARTER_TEXT`

If for a command group you want everybody to be able to use those commands, just don't include the relevant line in the `.env` file. For example, if you want everyone to be able to use GPT3 commands, you can just omit `the GPT_ROLES="...."` line.

## Server Installation

First, you want to get a server, for this guide, I will be using DigitalOcean as the host. 

For instructions on how to get a server from start to finish, they are available on DigitalOcean's website directly from the community, available here: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-an-ubuntu-20-04-server-on-a-digitalocean-droplet. Ignore the part about setting up an "ssh key", and just use a password instead. 

**Please sign up for a DigitalOcean account using my referral link if you'd like to support me https://m.do.co/c/e31eff1231a4**

After you set up the server, the DigitalOcean GUI will give you an IP address, copy this IP address. Afterwards, you will need to SSH into the server. This can be done using a program such as "PuTTy", or by using your commandline, if it's supported. To login to the server, your username will be "root", your password will be the password that you defined earlier when setting up the droplet, and the IP address will be the IP address you copied after the droplet was finished creation.

To connect with ssh, run the following command in terminal:
`ssh root@{IP ADDRESS}`

It will then prompt you for your password, which you should enter, and then you will be logged in. 

After login, we need to install the various dependencies that the bot needs. To do this, we will run the following commands:

Download the source code.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord.git
cd GPT3Discord/

# Install system packages (python)
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt install python3.9
sudo apt install python3.9-distutils # If this doesn't work, try sudo apt install python3-distutils

# Install Pip for python3.9
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python3.9 get-pip.py

# Install project dependencies
python3.9 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python3.9 -m pip install .

# Copy the sample.env file into a regular .env file. `DEBUG_GUILD` and the ID for `ALLOWED_GUILDS` can be found by right-clicking your server and choosing "Copy ID". Similarly, `DEBUG_CHANNEL` can be found by right-clicking your debug channel.
cp sample.env .env

# The command below is used to edit the .env file and to put in your API keys. You can right click within the
# editor after running this command to paste. When you are done editing, press CTRL + X, and then type Y, to save.
nano .env

# Run the bot using [screen](https://www.gnu.org/software/screen/manual/screen.html) to keep it running after you disconnect from your SSH session:
screen gpt3discord

# Hit `Ctrl+a` then `d` to detach from the running bot.
# The bot's screen session can be reattached:
screen -r
```

If the last few commands don't allow the bot to run `screen gpt3discord`, you can attempt to run the bot another way:
```bash
{Navigate to the folder where the project files are}
screen -dmS GPTBot bash -c 'python3.9 gpt3discord.py'

# Reattach to screen session
screen -x # will reattach if this is the only screen session, if there are multiple, it will show IDs
# If there are multiple IDs returned by screen -x:
screen -d -r {ID} # replace {ID} with the ID of the screen session you want to reattach to

```

# Non-Server, Non-Docker usage

With python3.9 installed and the requirements installed, you can run this bot anywhere. 

Install the dependencies with:
`python3.9 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`

Then, run the bot with:
`python3.9 gpt3discord.py`


## Docker Installation

We now have a `Dockerfile` in the repository. This will build / install all dependencies and put a `gpt3discord` binary (main.py) into path.
To build:

- [Install docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- Clone repository and build *(hopefully eventually we'll add CI to automatically build + push to docker hub)*
  - `docker build -t gpt3discord .`
  - *From repository root or supply path to repository*
- Make a env file to bind mount to /bin/.env
- Optional: Make a data directory + bind mount it
  - Add `DATA_DIR=/data` to env file
- Run via docker:
  - `docker run [-d] --name gpt3discord -v env_file:/bin/.env [-v /containers/gpt3discord:/data] gpt3discord`
  - You can also mount a second volume and set `DATA_DIR` in the env file to keep persistent data

This can also be run via screen/tmux or detached like a daemon.

## Bot on discord:

- Create a new Bot on Discord Developer Portal:
    - Applications -> New Application
- Generate Token for the app (discord_bot_token)
    - Select App (Bot) -> Bot -> Reset Token
- Toogle PRESENCE INTENT:
    - Select App (Bot) -> Bot -> PRESENCE INTENT, SERVER MEMBERS INTENT, MESSAGES INTENT, (basically turn on all intents)
- Add Bot the the server.
    - Select App (Bot) -> OAuth2 -> URL Generator -> Select Scope: Bot, application.commands
    - Bot Permissions will appear, select the desired permissions
    - Copy the link generated below and paste it on the browser
    - On add to server select the desired server to add the bot
- Make sure you have updated your .env file with valid values for `DEBUG_GUILD`, `DEBUG_CHANNEL` and `ALLOWED_GUILDS`, otherwise the bot will not work. Guild IDs can be found by right clicking a server and clicking `Copy ID`, similarly, channel IDs can be found by right clicking a channel and clicking `Copy ID`.

Commit message:

Added autocompleters to settings and opener files Settings now gets current keys so manual updating of choices isn't required Changed the way opener files are added to the conversation Using an opener file also enables minimal starter Added some example opener files

README.md, after:

![Docker](https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord/actions/workflows/docker_upload.yml/badge.svg)
![PyPi](https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord/actions/workflows/pypi_upload.yml/badge.svg)
![Build](https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/gpt3discord.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/gpt3discord)

# Screenshots

<p align="center">
<img src="https://i.imgur.com/KeLpDgj.png"/>
<img  src="https://i.imgur.com/jLp1T0h.png"/>

</p>

**PERMANENT MEMORY FOR CONVERSATIONS COMING VERY SOON USING EMBEDDINGS!**

# Recent Major Updates

- **AUTOMATIC CHAT SUMMARIZATION!** - When the context limit of a conversation is reached, the bot will use GPT3 itself to summarize the conversation to reduce the tokens, and continue conversing with you, this allows you to chat for a long time!

- **Private conversations, custom conversation openers, minimal conversation opener** - for `/gpt converse`

# Features
- **Directly prompt GPT3 with `/gpt ask <prompt>`**

- **Have conversations with the bot, just like chatgpt, with `/gpt converse`** - Conversations happen in threads that get automatically cleaned up!

- **DALL-E Image Generation** - Generate DALL-E AI images right in discord with `/dalle draw <prompt>`! It even supports multiple image qualities, multiple images, creating image variants, retrying, and saving images.

- **DALL-E Image Prompt Optimization** - Given some text that you're trying to generate an image for, the bot will automatically optimize the text to be more DALL-E friendly! `/dalle optimize <prompt>`

- **Redo Requests** - A simple button after the GPT3 response or DALL-E generation allows you to redo the initial prompt you asked. You can also redo conversation messages by just editing your message!

- Automatically re-send your prompt and update the response in place if you edit your original prompt!

- Async and fault tolerant, **can handle hundreds of users at once**, if the upstream API permits!
- Change and view model parameters such as temp, top_p, and etc directly within discord. 
- Tracks token usage automatically
- Automatic pagination and discord support, the bot will automatically send very long message as multiple messages, and is able to send discord code blocks and emoji, gifs, etc.
- A low usage mode, use a command to automatically switch to a cheaper and faster model to conserve your tokens during times of peak usage. 
- Prints debug to a channel of your choice, so you can view the raw response JSON
- Ability to specify a limit to how long a conversation can be with the bot, to conserve your tokens.

# Commands

These commands are grouped, so each group has a prefix but you can easily tab complete the command without the prefix. For example, for `/gpt ask`, if you type `/ask` and press tab, it'll show up too.

`/help` - Display help text for the bot

`/gpt ask <prompt>` Ask the GPT3 Davinci 003 model a question.

`/gpt converse` - Start a conversation with the bot, like ChatGPT

`/gpt converse private:yes` - Start a private conversation with the bot, like ChatGPT

`/gpt converse opener:<opener text>` - Start a conversation with the bot, with a custom opener text (this is useful if you want it to take on a custom personality from the start).

`/gpt converse opener_file:<opener file name>.txt` - Starts a conversation with the bot, using a custom file, using this option also enables the minimal conversation starter. Loads files from the `/openers` folder, has autocomplete support so files in the folder will show up

`/gpt converse minimal:yes` - Start a conversation with the bot, like ChatGPT, with minimal context (saves tokens)

- Note that the above options for `/gpt converse` can be combined (you can combine minimal, private, and opener!)

`/gpt end-chat` - End a conversation with the bot.

`/dalle draw <prompt>` - Have DALL-E generate images based on a prompt

`/dalle optimize <image prompt text>` Optimize a given prompt text for DALL-E image generation.

`/system settings` - Display settings for the model (temperature, top_p, etc)

`/system settings <setting> <value>` - Change a model setting to a new value

`/system usage` Estimate current usage details (based on davinci)

`/system settings low_usage_mode True/False` Turn low usage mode on and off. If on, it will use the curie-001 model, and if off, it will use the davinci-003 model.

`/system delete-conversation-threads` - Delete all threads related to this bot across all servers.

`/system local-size` - Get the size of the local dalleimages folder

`/system clear-local` - Clear all the local dalleimages.

# Configuration

All the model parameters are configurable inside discord. Type `/system settings` to view all the configurable parameters, and use `/system settings <param> <value>` to set parameters. 

For example, if I wanted to change the number of images generated by DALL-E by default to 4, I can type the following command in discord: `/system settings num_images 4`


# Requirements
`python3.9 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`

**I recommend using python 3.9!**

OpenAI API Key (https://beta.openai.com/docs/api-reference/introduction)

Discord Bot Token (https://discord.com/developers/applications)

You can learn how to add the discord bot to your server via https://www.ionos.co.uk/digitalguide/server/know-how/creating-discord-bot/

Both the OpenAI API key and the Discord bot token needed to be loaded into a .env file in the same local directory as the bot file.

You also need to add a DEBUG_GUILD id and a DEBUG_CHANNEL id, the debug guild id is a server id, and the debug channel id is a text-channel id in Discord. Your final .env file should look like the following:

You also need to add the allowed guilds that the bot can operate on, this is the `ALLOWED_GUILDS` field, to get a guild ID, right click a server and click "Copy ID".

You also need to add the roles that can use the bots various features, scroll down a bit to "Permissions", and check out the sample environment file below.

```
OPENAI_TOKEN="<openai_api_token>"
DISCORD_TOKEN="<discord_bot_token>"
DEBUG_GUILD="974519864045756446"   #discord_server_id
DEBUG_CHANNEL="977697652147892304"  #discord_chanel_id
ALLOWED_GUILDS="971268468148166697,971268468148166697"
# People with the roles in ADMIN_ROLES can use admin commands like /clear-local, and etc
ADMIN_ROLES="Admin,Owner" 
# People with the roles in DALLE_ROLES can use commands like /dalle draw or /dalle imgoptimize
DALLE_ROLES="Admin,Openai,Dalle,gpt"
# People with the roles in GPT_ROLES can use commands like /gpt ask or /gpt converse
GPT_ROLES="openai,gpt"
WELCOME_MESSAGE="Hi There! Welcome to our Discord server. We hope you'll enjoy our server and we look forward to engaging with you!" # This is a fallback message if gpt3 fails to generate a welcome message.
```

**Permissions**

As mentioned in the comments of the sample environment file, there are three permission groups that you can edit in the environment (`.env`) file. `ADMIN_ROLES` are roles that allow users to use `/system` commands. `GPT_ROLES` are roles that allow users to use `/gpt` commands, and `DALLE_ROLES` are roles that allow users to use `/dalle` commands.

Optionally, you can include your own conversation starter text for the bot that's used with `/gpt converse`, with `CONVERSATION_STARTER_TEXT`

If for a command group you want everybody to be able to use those commands, just don't include the relevant line in the `.env` file. For example, if you want everyone to be able to use GPT3 commands, you can just omit `the GPT_ROLES="...."` line.

## Server Installation

First, you want to get a server, for this guide, I will be using DigitalOcean as the host. 

For instructions on how to get a server from start to finish, they are available on DigitalOcean's website directly from the community, available here: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-an-ubuntu-20-04-server-on-a-digitalocean-droplet. Ignore the part about setting up an "ssh key", and just use a password instead. 

**Please sign up for a DigitalOcean account using my referral link if you'd like to support me https://m.do.co/c/e31eff1231a4**

After you set up the server, the DigitalOcean GUI will give you an IP address, copy this IP address. Afterwards, you will need to SSH into the server. This can be done using a program such as "PuTTy", or by using your commandline, if it's supported. To login to the server, your username will be "root", your password will be the password that you defined earlier when setting up the droplet, and the IP address will be the IP address you copied after the droplet was finished creation.

To connect with ssh, run the following command in terminal:
`ssh root@{IP ADDRESS}`

It will then prompt you for your password, which you should enter, and then you will be logged in. 

After login, we need to install the various dependencies that the bot needs. To do this, we will run the following commands:

Download the source code.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Kav-K/GPT3Discord.git
cd GPT3Discord/

# Install system packages (python)
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install software-properties-common
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:deadsnakes/ppa
sudo apt install python3.9
sudo apt install python3.9-distutils # If this doesn't work, try sudo apt install python3-distutils

# Install Pip for python3.9
curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py -o get-pip.py
python3.9 get-pip.py

# Install project dependencies
python3.9 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
python3.9 -m pip install .

# Copy the sample.env file into a regular .env file. `DEBUG_GUILD` and the ID for `ALLOWED_GUILDS` can be found by right-clicking your server and choosing "Copy ID". Similarly, `DEBUG_CHANNEL` can be found by right-clicking your debug channel.
cp sample.env .env

# The command below is used to edit the .env file and to put in your API keys. You can right click within the
# editor after running this command to paste. When you are done editing, press CTRL + X, and then type Y, to save.
nano .env

# Run the bot using [screen](https://www.gnu.org/software/screen/manual/screen.html) to keep it running after you disconnect from your SSH session:
screen gpt3discord

# Hit `Ctrl+a` then `d` to detach from the running bot.
# The bot's screen session can be reattached:
screen -r
```

If the last few commands don't allow the bot to run `screen gpt3discord`, you can attempt to run the bot another way:
```bash
{Navigate to the folder where the project files are}
screen -dmS GPTBot bash -c 'python3.9 gpt3discord.py'

# Reattach to screen session
screen -x # will reattach if this is the only screen session, if there are multiple, it will show IDs
# If there are multiple IDs returned by screen -x:
screen -d -r {ID} # replace {ID} with the ID of the screen session you want to reattach to

```

# Non-Server, Non-Docker usage

With python3.9 installed and the requirements installed, you can run this bot anywhere. 

Install the dependencies with:
`python3.9 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`

Then, run the bot with:
`python3.9 gpt3discord.py`


## Docker Installation

We now have a `Dockerfile` in the repository. This will build / install all dependencies and put a `gpt3discord` binary (main.py) into path.
To build:

- [Install docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- Clone repository and build *(hopefully eventually we'll add CI to automatically build + push to docker hub)*
  - `docker build -t gpt3discord .`
  - *From repository root or supply path to repository*
- Make a env file to bind mount to /bin/.env
- Optional: Make a data directory + bind mount it
  - Add `DATA_DIR=/data` to env file
- Run via docker:
  - `docker run [-d] --name gpt3discord -v env_file:/bin/.env [-v /containers/gpt3discord:/data] gpt3discord`
  - You can also mount a second volume and set `DATA_DIR` in the env file to keep persistent data

This can also be run via screen/tmux or detached like a daemon.

## Bot on discord:

- Create a new Bot on Discord Developer Portal:
    - Applications -> New Application
- Generate Token for the app (discord_bot_token)
    - Select App (Bot) -> Bot -> Reset Token
- Toogle PRESENCE INTENT:
    - Select App (Bot) -> Bot -> PRESENCE INTENT, SERVER MEMBERS INTENT, MESSAGES INTENT, (basically turn on all intents)
- Add Bot the the server.
    - Select App (Bot) -> OAuth2 -> URL Generator -> Select Scope: Bot, application.commands
    - Bot Permissions will appear, select the desired permissions
    - Copy the link generated below and paste it on the browser
    - On add to server select the desired server to add the bot
- Make sure you have updated your .env file with valid values for `DEBUG_GUILD`, `DEBUG_CHANNEL` and `ALLOWED_GUILDS`, otherwise the bot will not work. Guild IDs can be found by right clicking a server and clicking `Copy ID`, similarly, channel IDs can be found by right clicking a channel and clicking `Copy ID`.
